
README file for Solaris::Procfs 0.16 


NAME
    Solaris::Procfs - access Solaris process information from Perl

SYNOPSIS
    (See the EXAMPLES section below for more info.)

DESCRIPTION
    This module is an interface the /proc filesystem on Solaris systems.

    Each process on a Solaris system has a corresponding directory under
    /proc, named after the process id. In each of these directories are a
    series of files and subdirectories, which contain information about each
    process. The proc(4) manpage gives complete details about these files.
    Basically, the files contain one or more C structs with data about its
    corresponding process, maintained by the kernel.

    This module provides methods which access these files and convert the
    data structures contained in them into nested hashrefs. This module has
    been tested on Solaris 2.6, 7 and 8. It will not work on Solaris 2.5.1
    systems (yet).

STATUS
    This is pre-alpha software. It is far from finished. Parts of it need
    extensive rewriting and testing. However, the core functionality does
    seem to work properly.

    Contributions and critiques would be warmly welcomed.

    This module has been tested on the following systems, using gcc for
    builds:

            SunOS 5.6 (Solaris 2.6) SPARC  (perl 5.004_04, 5.005_03, 5.6.0)
            SunOS 5.7 (Solaris 7)   SPARC  (perl 5.005_03)
            SunOS 5.7 (Solaris 7)   x86    (perl 5.005_03)
            SunOS 5.8 (Solaris 8)   SPARC  (perl 5.005_03, 5.6.0)

    It may not even build on other systems. It has not been tested using the
    Sun Workshop compiler.

EXAMPLES
    There are several different ways to invoke the functions in this module:
    as object methods, as functions, or as a tied hash.

    As functions:

            use Solaris::Procfs;

            my $psinfo = Solaris::Procfs::psinfo( $pid );

    As exported functions:

            use Solaris::Procfs (:procfiles);

            my $psinfo = psinfo( $pid );

    As process objects:

            use Solaris::Procfs;
            use Solaris::Procfs::Process;

            my $p = new Solaris::Procfs::Process $pid;
            my $psinfo = $p->psinfo;

    As process objects with tied hashes:

            use Solaris::Procfs;
            use Solaris::Procfs::Process;

            my $p = new Solaris::Procfs::Process $pid;
            my $psinfo = $p->{psinfo};

    As a filesystem object with tied hashes:

            use Solaris::Procfs;
            use Solaris::Procfs::Filesystem;

            my $fs = new Solaris::Procfs::Filesystem;
            my $psinfo = $fs->{$pid}->{psinfo};

FUNCTIONS
    This module defines functions which each correspond to the files
    available under the directories in /proc. Complete descriptions of these
    files are available in the proc(4) manpage.

    Unless otherwise noted, the corresponding function in the
    Solaris::Procfs module simply returns the contents of the file in the
    form of a set of nested hashrefs. Exceptions to this are listed below.

    These functions can also be accessed implcitly as elements in a tied
    hash. When used this way, each process can be accessed as if it were one
    giant Perl structure, containing all the data related to that process id
    in the files under /proc/{pid}. To do this, you must use either the
    Solaris::Procfs::Process or the Solaris::Procfs::Filesystem modules. If
    you only use the Solaris::Procfs module, then you can only use the
    function-oriented interface.

    Additional functions are also available.

  as

    Not yet implemented. The 'as' file contains the address-space image of
    the process.

  auxv

    The 'auxv' file contains the initial values of the process's aux vector
    in an array of auxv_t structures (see <sys/auxv.h>).

  ctl

    Not implemented. The 'ctl' file is a write-only file to which structured
    messages are written directing the system to change some aspect of the
    process's state or control its behavior in some way.

  cwd

    Returns a string containing the absolute path to the process' current
    working directory. The 'cwd' file is a symbolic link to the process's
    current working directory.

  fd

    Returns a hash whose keys are the process' open file descriptors, and
    whose values are the absolute paths to the open files, as far as can be
    determined. The 'fd' directory contains references to the open files of
    the process. Each entry is a decimal number corresponding to an open
    file descriptor in the process.

  ldt

    Not yet implemented. The 'ldt' file exists only on x86 based machines.
    It is non-empty only if the process has established a local descriptor
    table (LDT). If non-empty, the file contains the array of currently
    active LDT entries in an array of elements of type struct ssd, defined
    in <sys/sysi86.h>, one element for each active LDT entry.

  lpsinfo

    The 'lpsinfo' file contains a prheader structure followed by an array of
    lwpsinfo structures, one for each lwp in the process.

  lstatus

    The 'lstatus' file contains a prheader structure followed by an array of
    lwpstatus structures, one for each lwp in the process.

  lusage

    The 'lusage' file contains a prheader structure followed by an array of
    prusage structures, one for each lwp in the process plus an additional
    element at the beginning that contains the summation over all defunct
    lwps.

  lwp

    The 'lwp' directory contains entries each of which names an lwp within
    the process. These entries are themselves directories containing
    additional files. This function returns the contents of the files
    'lwpstatus', 'lwpsinfo', and 'lwpusage', translated into a set of nested
    hashes. Interfaces to the files 'asrs', 'gwindoes', 'lwpctl' and 'xregs'
    have not been implemented.

  map

    The 'map' file contains information about the virtual address map of the
    process. The file contains an array of prmap structures, each of which
    describes a contiguous virtual address region in the address space of
    the traced process.

  object

    Not yet implemented. The 'object' directory containing read-only files
    with names corresponding to the entries in the map and pagedata files.
    Opening such a file yields a file descriptor for the underlying mapped
    file associated with an address-space mapping in the process.

  pagedata

    Not yet implemented. Opening the 'pagedata' file enables tracking of
    address space references and modifications on a per-page basis.

  prcred

    The 'prcred' file contains a description of the credentials associated
    with the process (UID, GID, etc.).

  psinfo

    The 'psinfo' file ontains miscellaneous information about the process
    and the representative lwp needed by the ps(1) command.

  rmap

    The 'rmap' file contains information about the reserved address ranges
    of the process. Examples of such reservations include the address ranges
    reserved for the process stack and the individual thread stacks of a
    multi-threaded process.

  root

    Returns a string containing the absolute path to the process' root
    directory. The 'root' file is a symbolic link to the process' current
    working directory.

  sigact

    The 'sigact' file contains an array of sigaction structures describing
    the current dispositions of all signals associated with the traced
    process (see sigaction(2)).

  status

    The 'status' file ontains state information about the process and the
    representative lwp.

  usage

    The 'usage' file contains process usage information described by a
    prusage structure.

  watch

    Not yet implemented. The 'watch' file contains an array of prwatch
    structures, one for each watched area established by the PCWATCH control
    operation.

OTHER FUNCTIONS
  writectl

    Write control directives to a process control file (/proc/<pid>/ctl).
    For example, the following code will turn on microstate accounging for a
    given process ($pid):

            use Solaris::Procfs qw(writectl);
            writectl($pid,PCSET,PR_MSACCT); 

CHANGES
    * Version 0.16
                Added a writectl() function for sending signals to processes.
                Defined a set of constants which correspond to the #define's
                in the sys/procfs.h header.  Added a few example scripts. 

    * Version 0.14
                Separated the Filesystem and Process modules from the 
                main Procfs module.  The module Procfs.pm itself now contains 
                no object-oriented code.  All OO code is in Filesystem.pm
                and Process.pm. 

    * Version 0.10
                Initial release on CPAN

TO DO
    *   Improve the documentation, test scripts and sample scripts. Create
        examples of the use of the writectl() functions. Add and test a
        writelwp() function similar to writectl().

    *   Implement more graceful error handling and error messages. Currently,
        errors are handled poorly and inconsistenly. :(

    *   Add functions which can read the 'as' file.

    *   Finish implementing Perl scripts which correspond to each of the
        procutils binaries (under /usr/proc/bin). These are described in the
        proc(1) manpage.

    *   Add support for Solaris 2.5.1. This will require a good bit of work, as
        the /proc filesystem is rather different under Solaris 2.5.1. This
        item is low on the priority list.

THANKS
    Much of this code is modeled after code written by Alan Burlison, and I
    received some helpful and timely advice from Tye McQueen.

    Thanks to Daniel J. Urist for writing Proc::ProcessTable. I used his
    method for keeping track of TTY numbers.

AUTHOR
    John Nolan jpnolan@sonic.net 1999, 2000. A copyright statment is
    contained in the source code itself.

